freelance.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Freelance-service Softwareengineer"
date: 2025-05-16
permalink: /freelance-offer
tags: [freelancing, java, backend, work, hendrik, schick, spring-boot, angular, vuejs, cloud, aws, kubernetes, tdd, ddd]
---

Hi! I'm a freelance **Java developer** who helps teams deliver clean, reliable software – the kind that’s easy to maintain, performs well, and doesn’t fall apart under pressure.

I’ve been building backends, APIs, UIs, and cloud infrastructure for several years. These days, I focus on projects where **code quality**, **scalability**, and **real-world usability** matter.  
I can work **hybrid in german-speaking switzerland** or **remote**, and I’m open to collaborations worldwide.

---

## ☕ Java – My Core Stack

Java is where I’m most at home. I’ve worked with the language through many of its evolutions — and I keep up with new features all the way up to **Java 24**.

What I bring to the table:

- Solid experience with **modern Java**: Records, Pattern Matching, Virtual Threads, Sealed Classes, etc.
- Strong testing mindset: **JUnit 5**, **AssertJ**, **Mockito**, and **Testcontainers**
- I practice **TDD** when it makes sense – not as a religion, but to keep code focused and testable
- Familiar with patterns like Clean Architecture and Hexagonal Design (without overengineering)
- I like **Domain-Driven Design** – especially when working on complex business logic
- I’ve used a lot of classic patterns (Strategy, Specification, Builder, Visitor etc.) when they help keep things clean

---

## 🌱 Spring Boot & Ecosystem

Most of my backend work is based on **Spring Boot** or **JavaEE/Jakarta** – whether it’s building APIs, handling business logic, or integrating external systems.

What I usually work with:

- Spring Boot (2.x / 3.x), Spring Security, Spring Data JPA
- Flyway, QueryDSL, OpenAPI/Swagger, Actuator
- Reactive services with WebFlux (when needed)
- Modular monoliths or microservices – depending on what the project really needs

---

## 🌐 Frontend: Angular & Vue.js

While backend is my main focus, I’ve also built and maintained plenty of **Angular** and **Vue.js** frontends – mostly as part of full-stack projects.

- Angular (strong TypeScript, RxJS, forms, routing)
- Vue 2 & 3 (clean, component-driven architecture)
- REST integration, state management, and UI frameworks like TailwindCSS

---

## ☁️ Cloud, Containers & DevOps

I’m comfortable building and deploying systems in the cloud – and I understand how to run things in production.

Tools & platforms I’ve worked with:

- **Docker**, multi-stage builds, slim images
- **Kubernetes**, health checks, Helm, namespaces, scaling strategies
- **OpenShift** – often in enterprise settings
- **AWS** – EC2, ECS/EKS, RDS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, API Gateway
- CI/CD pipelines with GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, ArgoCD

Whether it’s a lift-and-shift or cloud-native setup, I can help get things running smoothly.

---

## ⚙️ Performance & Code Quality

I enjoy digging into tricky performance issues – especially when things “almost work” but still feel slow or flaky.

Here’s what I typically do:

- JVM profiling with JFR, VisualVM, or YourKit
- Optimizing database queries and indexes
- Improving memory usage and GC behavior
- Frontend performance: bundle sizes, load time, LCP, etc.
- Add automated checks to CI (tests, code quality, metrics)

---

## 🤝 How I Work

- I work either hybrid oder remote near Zürich, Switzerland
- I can work either on-site/hybrid in german-speaking switzerland or fully remote globally
- Open to **collaborating globally**, async or real-time
- I'm fluent in german (mother-tongue) and english and I understand swiss german very well
- You’ll get clean code, honest communication, and practical results

---

## 📩 Let's Talk

If you're looking for a hands-on developer who cares about architecture *and* delivery, I’d love to hear from you. 

Reach out to me on email 📧 **hendrikjschick@gmail.com** or on my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hendrik-schick/)

Commit message:

adjust a bit for contractor/freelancer

freelance.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Freelance-service/Contractor Softwareengineer"
date: 2025-05-16
permalink: /freelance-offer
tags: [freelancing, java, backend, work, hendrik, schick, spring-boot, angular, vuejs, cloud, aws, kubernetes, tdd, ddd]
---

Hi! I'm a freelance/contract-based **Java developer** who helps teams deliver clean, reliable software – the kind that’s easy to maintain, performs well, and doesn’t fall apart under pressure.

I’ve been building backends, APIs, UIs, and cloud infrastructure for several years. These days, I focus on projects where **code quality**, **scalability**, and **real-world usability** matter.  
I can work **hybrid in german-speaking switzerland** or **remote**, and I’m open to collaborations worldwide.

---

## ☕ Java – My Core Stack

Java is where I’m most at home. I’ve worked with the language through many of its evolutions — and I keep up with new features all the way up to **Java 24**.

What I bring to the table:

- Solid experience with **modern Java**: Records, Pattern Matching, Virtual Threads, Sealed Classes, etc.
- Strong testing mindset: **JUnit 5**, **AssertJ**, **Mockito**, and **Testcontainers**
- I practice **TDD** when it makes sense – not as a religion, but to keep code focused and testable
- Familiar with patterns like Clean Architecture and Hexagonal Design (without overengineering)
- I like **Domain-Driven Design** – especially when working on complex business logic
- I’ve used a lot of classic patterns (Strategy, Specification, Builder, Visitor etc.) when they help keep things clean

---

## 🌱 Spring Boot & Ecosystem

Most of my backend work is based on **Spring Boot** or **JavaEE/Jakarta** – whether it’s building APIs, handling business logic, or integrating external systems.

What I usually work with:

- Spring Boot (2.x / 3.x), Spring Security, Spring Data JPA
- Flyway, QueryDSL, OpenAPI/Swagger, Actuator
- Reactive services with WebFlux (when needed)
- Modular monoliths or microservices – depending on what the project really needs

---

## 🌐 Frontend: Angular & Vue.js

While backend is my main focus, I’ve also built and maintained plenty of **Angular** and **Vue.js** frontends – mostly as part of full-stack projects.

- Angular (strong TypeScript, RxJS, forms, routing)
- Vue 2 & 3 (clean, component-driven architecture)
- REST integration, state management, and UI frameworks like TailwindCSS

---

## ☁️ Cloud, Containers & DevOps

I’m comfortable building and deploying systems in the cloud – and I understand how to run things in production.

Tools & platforms I’ve worked with:

- **Docker**, multi-stage builds, slim images
- **Kubernetes**, health checks, Helm, namespaces, scaling strategies
- **OpenShift** – often in enterprise settings
- **AWS** – EC2, ECS/EKS, RDS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, API Gateway
- CI/CD pipelines with GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, ArgoCD

Whether it’s a lift-and-shift or cloud-native setup, I can help get things running smoothly.

---

## ⚙️ Performance & Code Quality

I enjoy digging into tricky performance issues – especially when things “almost work” but still feel slow or flaky.

Here’s what I typically do:

- JVM profiling with JFR, VisualVM, or YourKit
- Optimizing database queries and indexes
- Improving memory usage and GC behavior
- Frontend performance: bundle sizes, load time, LCP, etc.
- Add automated checks to CI (tests, code quality, metrics)

---

## 🤝 How I Work

- I work either hybrid oder remote near Zürich, Switzerland
- I can work either on-site/hybrid in german-speaking switzerland or fully remote globally
- Open to **collaborating globally**, async or real-time
- I'm fluent in german (mother-tongue) and english and I understand swiss german very well
- You’ll get clean code, honest communication, and practical results

---

## 📩 Let's Talk

If you're looking for a hands-on developer who cares about architecture *and* delivery, I’d love to hear from you. 

Reach out to me on email 📧 **mail@hendrik-schick.me** or on my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hendrik-schick/)
